FOCUS #145: List Unit Price spec changes and supporting content (#163)
FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec: supporting_content/appendix/quantity_driven_pricing_strategies.md

> # Quantity-Driven Pricing strategies

Reviewer: Is this meant to be in supporting content?

### Quantity-Dependent Pricing (Usage-Dependent Pricing)

Quantity-dependent pricing, also referred to as usage-dependent pricing, takes into account the quantity and adjusts pricing accordingly. This approach involves configuring multiple price tiers, each defined by a specific quantity range and associated unit prices, such as ListUnitPrice, NegotiatedUnitPrice, BilledUnitPrice, etc.

Typically, higher usage tiers feature lower unit prices, offering users the advantage of reduced unit costs as their usage expands. Additionally, quantity-dependent pricing may include a **free-tier**, a special price tier designed for minimal usage levels.

Within the context of quantity-dependent pricing, two common strategies are volume-based pricing and tier-based pricing. While both strategies reset the count of charged units at the beginning of each interval, they differ in how charges are categorized into different price tiers:

> * **volume-based pricing:** This strategy adjusts unit prices based on the total usage within a specific interval, affecting all charges within that interval. Customers benefit from reduced unit costs as their overall usage increases.

Author: It only makes sense if it's synchronized with the billing period? Would you agree?
I'll replace 'interval' with 'billing period' for now, and later we can revisit and discuss further.

> * **volume-based pricing:** This strategy adjusts unit prices based on the total usage within a specific interval, affecting all charges within that interval. Customers benefit from reduced unit costs as their overall usage increases.

Author: Replaced all mentions of 'interval' with 'billing period.' 
Resolving this conversation as there is a pending discussion on the quantity-driven pricing strategies topic in general.

> * **tier-based pricing:** In tier-based pricing, unit prices change as the number of charged units increases. Specific charges move into higher tiers as their usage crosses into those ranges.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **tier-based pricing:** In tier-based pricing, unit prices change as the number of charged units increases. You are charged for the consumed quantity within each tier based on the associated rate for each tier.
```

Author: I'll just replace 'rate' with 'unit price'.
